Add [Concept Entry] SwiftUI Slider (#3474)
Codecademy/docs: content/swiftui/concepts/slider/slider.md

---
Title: 'Slider'

> Description: 'Slider is a structure that creates an interface with a sliding controller, enabling users to choose a value from within a range of values.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'A structure that creates an interface with a sliding controller, enabling users to choose from a range of values.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'iOS'
Tags:
  - 'SwiftUI'
  - 'UI'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

> **`Slider`** is a [structure](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swift/structures) that creates an interface with a sliding controller, enabling users to choose a value from within a range of values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`Slider`** is a [structure](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swift/structures) that creates an interface with a sliding controller, enabling users to choose from a range of values.
```

A `Slider` instance can be customised so that the value changes by a specific step amount within its range. It's also possible to add minimum and maximum labels and track when the slider is being edited.

## Syntax

To create a `Slider` instance, pass a bound variable to the required parameter, `value`. This means that the bound variable will update when the slider is changed. The syntax is as follows:

```pseudo
Slider(value: bound variable)
```

> **Note**: Bound variables are prefixed with `$` in SwiftUI.

### Optional Parameters

The syntax below includes the optional parameters available for a `Slider` instance:

```pseudo
Slider(
  value: bound variable,
  in: range,
  step: step amount,
  onEditingChanged: { _ in
    // Code to execute when the slider starts or stops being edited.
  },
  minimumValueLabel: minimum value label,
  maximumValueLabel: maximum value label,
  label: { slider label }
)
```

> Below is more information on the optional parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The optional parameters include:
```

## Example

The following example code will display a gray [circle](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/circle) that can be overlayed with a mint colored circle using the slider above it:

```swift
import SwiftUI

struct SliderView: View {
  @State private var circleWidth: Double = 0
  @State private var isEditing = false

  var body: some View {
    VStack {
      Slider(
        value: $circleWidth,
        in: 0...300,
        step: 10,
        onEditingChanged: { editing in
            isEditing = editing
        },
        minimumValueLabel: Text("0"),
        maximumValueLabel: Text("300"),
        label: { Text("Circle Width") }
      )
      .tint(.mint)
      ZStack {
        Circle()
          .fill(.gray.opacity(0.2))
          .frame(width: 300)
        Circle()
          .fill(isEditing ? .purple : .mint)
          .frame(width: circleWidth)
        }
      Text("\(integer_t(circleWidth))").bold()
    }
    .padding()
  }
}
```

> A `circleWidth` variable is declared and bound to a `Slider` instance inside a [`VStack`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/vstack). The slider has a range between 0 and 300, and a step increment of 10. The `onEditingChanged` callback updates the boolean `isEditing` variable to `true` when the slider is in use and to `false` when not in use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `circleWidth` variable is declared and bound to a `Slider` instance inside a [`VStack`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/vstack). The slider has a range between `0` and `300`, and a step increment of `10`. The `onEditingChanged` callback updates the boolean `isEditing` variable to `true` when the slider is in use and to `false` when not in use.
```

> The slider line has a mint color by applying the `.tint(.mint)` [view modifier](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/viewmodifier).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The slider line color is specified by applying the `.tint(.mint)` [view modifier](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/viewmodifier).
```

Below the `Slider` is a [`ZStack`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/zstack) containing a 300 point wide `Circle` filled with a slightly opaque gray [color](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/colors).

> Layered above the gray `Circle` is another `Circle` that has its width determined by `circleWidth` and is purple while the user is editing the slider and mint otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Layered above the gray `Circle` is another `Circle` that has its width determined by `circleWidth`, it is purple while the user is editing the slider and mint otherwise.
```

> Below the `ZStack` is a [text view](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/text) that shows the value of `circleWidth` as an integer and updates when the slider value changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below the `ZStack` is a [text view](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/swiftui/views/text) that shows the value of `circleWidth` in real-time as the slider value changes.
```
